*vihxen.txt* A plugin for working with the Haxe language. For Vim version 7.3

=============================================================================
Author:  Justin Donaldson <jdonaldson@gmail.com>              *vihxen-author*
License: WTFPL (see |vihxen-license|)
=============================================================================
CONTENTS                                        *vihxen-contents*

|vihxen-introduction|                   Introduction and Feature Summary
|vihxen-functions|                      Functions
|vihxen-settings|                       Settings
|compiler-vihxen|                       Compiler

{Incompatible with Vi}

=============================================================================

INTRODUCTION                                    *vihxen*
                                                *vihxen-introduction*

This plugin adds basic support for Haxe syntax, indenting, and compiling.  In
addition, it provides functions and features for advanced vim features such as
|omnifunc|, |makeprg|, and |ctags|, as well as supporting useful bundles such
as |taglist|, |neocomplcache|, |snipmate|, and |powerline|. Also included is
syntax and support for Hxml.

Vihxen uses the Haxe compiler extensively to determine code completions, and
generate various metadata.  The compiler, in turn, uses sequences of compiler
directives in "hxml" files in order to specify build and output options,
similar to gnu makefiles.

Vihxen has two different "build modes" that designate how to find the hxml
file, as well as how to set up the |makeprg|.  If you're working with simple
projects, then the default mode will work just fine.  If you have a complex
project structure with many different sub-builds, then you may want to consider
using |vihxen-project-mode|.  You can also set project mode by setting the
g:vihxen_hxml variable manually. This is useful if you want to set a special
hxml for all files in a given directory:

>
:autocmd BufNewFile,BufRead /project/* let g:vihxen_build = /project/build.hxml
<

Keep in mind that the project mode will persist throughout your entire session.
If you wish to exit project mode, simply unset the g:vihxen_hxml variable.

BUILD MODES                                     *vihxen-build*

Default                                         *vihxen-default-mode*
                        This mode is used automatically any time a *.hx file
                        is opened.  It can be retriggered by calling
                        |vihxen#DefaultHxml|. Vihxen will search the project
                        path for the preferred file indicated by
                        |g:vihxen_prefer_hxml|.
                        If it finds a preferred build file in the parent
                        directories of the currently edited file, it will set
                        a b:vihxen_hxml variable for the current buffer.
                        It sets a |makeprg| that has the following behavior:
                        It will cd to the preferred hxml directory, call the
                        compiler with the preferred hxml, and redirect errors
                        to standard out.

Project                                         *vihxen-project-mode*
                        This mode is used when |vihxen#ProjectHxml| is called.
                        It will set a g:vihxen_hxml variable that will
                        override any b:vihxen_hxml variables set by the default
                        method.  It also sets a |makeprg| that simply executes
                        the haxe compiler in the working directory,
                        and redirects errors to standard out.  Project mode
                        assumes that you will keep the same working directory
                        throughout your vim session.

Functions                                        *vihxen-functions*

*vihxen#CompilerClassPaths*
                          Retrieve the class paths for the current build target.

*vihxen#Ctags*            Generate a ctags file for the current build target.
                        This function will use the compiler class paths for the
                        current build, which will include all standard
                        libraries, as well as libraries from included haxelibs.
                        Vihxen also provides a tag description file that can
                        be used with |taglist| if it is installed.

*vihxen#CurrentBuild*     Returns the current active project build file if it
                        is specified, else it will return the default build
                        file name if it exists.

*vihxen#DefaultHxml*      Find the preferred build file recursively in the
                        parents of the working directory. This function is
                        called automatically whenever any hx file is opened.

*vihxen#HaxeComplete*     The |omnifunc| provided for vihxen.

*vihxen#OpenHxml*         Open the current build file specified with
                        |vihxen#DefaultHxml|, or |vihxen#ProjectHxml|. You can
                        easily add this function to a trigger:
                        >
                            map <leader>oh :call vihxen#OpenHxml()<CR>
                        <

*vihxen#ProjectHxml*      Find and select hxml files in the working directory.
                        Selecting a file with this method will enter
                        |vihxen-project-mode|.  If you have installed |tlib|,
                        then it will use |tlib#input#List| to select hxml
                        candidates. If you call this often, it makes sense to
                        map it to a leader action:
                        >
                            map <leader>ph : call vihxen#ProjectHxml()<CR>
                        <

ACTIVE TARGET                                      *omnifunc-active-target*

In some cases, an hxml file may specify multiple targets via a "--next"
directive.  The specified behavior for the compiler may be very different
betwen --next sections.

Vihxen will use the first section it finds in order to generate completions.
It is possible to specify a different target by inserting a line like this into
your hxml:
>
    # vihxen
<
The target that Vihxen uses is called the "active" target.  This target is used
for generating completions, as well as for determining current compiler class
paths, and for generating ctags.

SETTINGS                                        *vihxen-settings*

*g:vihxen_prefer_hxml*    The preferred name for hxml files to search for in
                        default build mode. The default is "build.hxml"

*g:vihxen_hxml*           A variable that indicates the |vihxen-project-mode|
                        build file.  It will override the |vihxen-default-mode|
                        setting if present.

LICENSE                                         *vihxen-license*

Copyright (C) 2012 Justin Donaldson <jdonaldson@gmail.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
